---
pubDate: 2024-05-30
author: Tudor Radoni
title: Iced Latte - A delicious and refreshing summer favorite
description: "Iced lattes are a popular choice for coffee lovers during the summer months. This refreshing drink is made with espresso, milk, and ice, and can be customized with your favorite syrups and flavors."
image:
  url: "/images/c2.png"
  alt: "#"
tags: ["Iced", "Latte", "Coffee" ]
---

This one is super simple: espresso, milk, and ice. HOWEVER:

## AeroPress or Espresso?

Depends. I love both. Let me tell you why.

### AeroPress

Picture this, you are in the middle of nowhere, camping, and you want a good - no, you want a great coffee. What are your options? An espresso machine surely isn't one of them. But an AeroPress? Yeah, this sure is. It's small, portable, and makes a great coffee even on the top of a mountain!

What I love doing is making quite a long "espresso" with the AeroPress, with a 12g coffee to 200g water ratio. I then pour it over ice and add a bit of milk. The result is an awesome iced latte, which contains a bit more coffee than milk, but with a light body and a great taste.

### Espresso

If you have an espresso machine, you can make a (double???) shot of espresso. In the meantime, fill a cup with ice and pour milk over it. Add the espresso, stir, stir, stir and enjoy!

## Syrups and Flavors

Personally, I like my coffee as is. Sometimes, though, I love experimenting and I feel like drinking a sweet coffee. In this case, you can make sort of an iced mocha, by adding chocolate syrup to the mix. Or, you can add vanilla syrup, caramel syrup, or any other syrup you like. The possibilities are endless!

For the mocha, here's a cool trick: make a paste with cocoa powder and a bit of hot water. Optionally, but highly recommended, add some vanilla sugar, for a hint of ✨fancyness✨.
